“You sure about this?” Rachel asked again, blowing softly on the surface of her
steaming cup of tea. They were sitting at their usual window table at Tea & Sympathy,
and Nick had just invited her to spend the summer with him in Asia.
“Rachel, I’d love it if you came,” Nick reassured her. “You weren’t planning on
teaching this summer, so what’s your worry? Think you won’t be able to handle the
heat and humidity?”
“No, that’s not it. I know you’re going to be so busy with all your best-man duties,
and I wouldn’t want to distract you,” Rachel said.
“What distraction? Colin’s wedding is only going to take up the first week in
Singapore, and then we can spend the rest of the summer just bumming around Asia.
Come on, let me show you where I grew up. I want to take you to all my favorite
haunts.”
“Will you show me the sacred cave where you lost your virginity?” Rachel teased,
arching an eyebrow playfully.
“Definitely! We can even stage a reenactment!” Nick laughed, slathering jam and
clotted cream onto a scone still warm from the oven. “And doesn’t a good friend of
yours live in Singapore?”
“Yes, Peik Lin, my best friend from college,” Rachel said. “She’s been trying to get me
to come visit for years.”
“All the more reason. Rachel, you’re going to love it, and I just know you’re going to
flip out over the food! You do realize Singapore is the most food-obsessed country on
the planet?”
“Well, just watching the way you fawn over everything you eat, I figured it’s pretty
much the national sport.”
“Remember Calvin Trillin’s New Yorker piece on Singapore street foods? I’ll take you
to all the local dives even he doesn’t know about.” Nick took another bite of his fluffy
scone and continued with his mouth full. “I know how much you love these scones.
Just wait till you taste my Ah Ma’s—”
“Your Ah Ma bakes scones?” Rachel tried to imagine a traditional Chinese
grandmother preparing this quintessentially English confection.
“Well, she doesn’t exactly bake them herself, but she has the best scones in the world
—you’ll see,” Nick said, turning around reflexively to make sure no one in the cozy
little spot had overheard him. He didn’t want to become persona non grata at his
favorite café for carelessly pledging allegiance to another scone, even if it was his
grandmother’s.
At a neighboring table, the girl huddled behind a three-tiered stand piled high with
finger sandwiches was getting increasingly excited by the conversation she was
overhearing. She suspected it might be him, but now she had absolute confirmation. It
was Nicholas Young. Even though she was only fifteen at the time, Celine Lim never
forgot the day Nicholas strolled past their table at Pulau Club * and flashed that
devastating grin of his at her sister Charlotte.
“Is that one of the Leong brothers?” their mother had asked.
“No, that’s Nicholas Young, a cousin of the Leongs,” Charlotte replied.
“Philip Young’s boy? Aiyah, when did he shoot up like that? He’s so handsome now!”
Mrs. Lim exclaimed.
“He’s just back from Oxford. Double-majored in history and law,” Charlotte added,
anticipating her mother’s next question.
“Why didn’t you get up and talk to him?” Mrs. Lim said excitedly.
“Why should I bother, when you swat away every guy who dares come near,”
Charlotte answered curtly.
“Alamak, stupid girl! I’m only trying to protect you from fortune hunters. This one
you’d be lucky to have. This one you can cheong!”
Celine couldn’t believe her mother was actually encouraging her big sister to snatch
this boy. She stared curiously at Nicholas, now laughing animatedly with his friends at
a table under a blue-and-white umbrella by the pool. Even from afar, he stood out in
high relief. Unlike the other fellows with their regulation Indian barbershop haircuts,
Nicholas had perfectly tousled black hair, chiseled Cantonese pop-idol features, and
impossibly thick eyelashes. He was the cutest, dreamiest guy she’d ever seen.
“Charlotte, why don’t you go over and invite him to your fund-raiser on Saturday?”
their mother kept on.
“Stop it, Mum.” Charlotte smiled through gritted teeth. “I know what I’m doing.”
As it turned out, Charlotte did not know what she was doing, since Nicholas never
showed up at her fund-raiser, much to their mother’s eternal disappointment. But that
afternoon at Pulau Club left such an indelible mark on Celine’s adolescent memory that
six years later and on the other side of the planet, she still recognized him.
“Hannah, let me get a picture of you with that delicious sticky toffee pudding,” Celine
said, taking out her camera phone. She pointed it in the direction of her friend, but
surreptitiously trained the lens on Nicholas. She snapped the photo and immediately e-
mailed it to her sister, who now lived in Atherton, California. Her phone pinged
minutes later.
BigSis: OMFG! THAT’S NICK YOUNG! WHERE ARE U?
Celine Lim: T&S.
BigSis: Who’s the girl he’s with?
Celine Lim: GF, I think. Looks ABC. †
BigSis: Hmm … do you see a ring?
Celine Lim: No ring.
BigSis: PLS spy for me!!!
 Celine Lim: You owe me big-time!!!
Nick gazed out the café window, marveling at the people with tiny dogs parading
along this stretch of Greenwich Avenue as if it were a catwalk for the city’s most
fashionable breeds. A year ago, French bulldogs were all the rage, but now it looked
like Italian grey hounds were giving the Frenchies a run for their money. He faced
Rachel again, resuming his campaign. “The great thing about starting out in Singapore
is that it’s the perfect base. Malaysia is just across a bridge, and it’s a quick hop to
Hong Kong, Cambodia, Thailand. We can even go island-hopping off Indonesia—”
“It all sounds amazing, but ten weeks … I don’t know if I want to be away that long,”
Rachel mused. She could sense Nick’s eagerness, and the idea of visiting Asia again
filled her with excitement. She had spent a year teaching in Chengdu between college
and grad school but couldn’t afford to travel anywhere beyond China’s borders back
then. As an economist, she certainly knew enough about Singapore—this tiny,
intriguing island at the tip of the Malay Peninsula, which had transformed within a few
short decades from a British colonial backwater into the country with the world’s
highest concentration of millionaires. It would be fascinating to see the place up close,
especially with Nick as her guide.
Yet something about this trip made Rachel a little apprehensive, and she couldn’t
help but ponder the deeper implications. Nick made it seem so spontaneous, but
knowing him, she was sure he had put far more thought into it than he let on. They
had been together for almost two years, and now he was inviting her on an extended
trip to visit his hometown, to attend his best friend’s wedding, no less. Did this mean
what she thought it did?
Rachel peered into her teacup, wishing she could divine something from the stray
leaves pooled at the bottom of the deep golden Assam. She had never been the sort of
girl who longed for fairytale endings. Being twenty-nine, she was by Chinese standards
well into old-maid territory, and even though her busybody relatives were perpetually
trying to set her up, she had spent the better part of her twenties focused on getting
through grad school, finishing her dissertation, and jump-starting her career in
academia. This surprise invitation, however, sparked some vestigial instinct within her.
He wants to take me home. He wants me to meet his family. The long-dormant romantic in
her was awakening, and she knew there was only one answer to give.
“I’ll have to check with my dean to see when I’m needed back, but you know what?
Let’s do this!” Rachel declared. Nick leaned across the table, kissing her jubilantly.
Minutes later, before Rachel herself knew for certain her summer plans, the details of
her conversation had already begun to spread far and wide, circling the globe like a
virus set loose. After Celine Lim (Parsons School of Design fashion major) e-mailed her
sister Charlotte Lim (recently engaged to venture capitalist Henry Chiu) in California,
Charlotte called her best friend Daphne Ma (Sir Benedict Ma’s youngest daughter) in
Singapore and breathlessly filled her in. Daphne texted eight friends, including Carmen
Kwek (granddaughter of Robert “Sugar King” Kwek) in Shanghai, whose cousin Amelia
Kwek had gone to Oxford with Nicholas Young. Amelia simply had to IM her friend
Justina Wei (the Instant Noodle heiress) in Hong Kong, and Justina, whose office at
Hutchison Whampoa was right across the hall from Roderick Liang’s (of the Liang
Finance Group Liangs), simply had to interrupt his conference call to share this juicy
tidbit. Roderick in turn Skyped his girlfriend Lauren Lee, who was holidaying at the
Royal Mansour in Marrakech with her grandmother Mrs. Lee Yong Chien (no
introductions necessary) and her aunt Patsy Teoh (Miss Taiwan 1979, now the ex-wife
of telecom mogul Dickson Teoh). Patsy made a poolside call to Jacqueline Ling
(granddaughter of philanthropist Ling Yin Chao) in London, knowing full well that
Jacqueline would have a direct line to Cassandra Shang (Nicholas Young’s second
cousin), who spent every spring at her family’s vast estate in Surrey. And so this exotic
strain of gossip spread rapidly through the levantine networks of the Asian jet set, and
within a few hours, almost everyone in this exclusive circle knew that Nicholas Young
was bringing a girl home to Singapore.
And, alamak! This was big news.
* Singapore’s most prestigious country club (with membership practically harder to obtain than a knighthood).
† American-born Chinese.
2
Eleanor Young
SINGAPORE
Everyone knew that Dato’ * Tai Toh Lui made his first fortune the dirty way by bringing
down Loong Ha Bank in the early eighties, but in the two decades since, the efforts of
his wife, Datin Carol Tai, on behalf of the right charities had burnished the Tai name
into one of respectability. Every Thursday, for instance, the datin held a Bible study
luncheon for her closest friends in her bedroom, and Eleanor Young was sure to attend.
Carol’s palatial bedroom was not actually in the sprawling glass-and-steel structure
everyone living along Kheam Hock Road nicknamed the “Star Trek House.” Instead, on
the advice of her husband’s security team, the bedroom was hidden away in the pool
pavilion, a white travertine fortress that spanned the swimming pool like a postmodern
Taj Mahal. To get there, you either had to follow the footpath that wound along the
coral rock gardens or take the shortcut through the service wing. Eleanor always
preferred the quicker route, since she assiduously avoided the sun to maintain her
porcelain-white complexion, and also, as Carol’s oldest friend, she considered herself
exempt from the formalities of waiting at the front door, being announced by the
butler, and all that nonsense.
Besides, Eleanor enjoyed passing through the kitchens. The old amahs squatting over
enamel double boilers would always open the lids for Eleanor to sniff the smoky
medicinal herbs being brewed for Carol’s husband (“natural Viagra,” as he called it),
and the kitchen maids gutting fish in the courtyard would fawn over how youthful Mrs.
Young still looked for sixty, what with her fashionably shagged chin-length hair and
her unwrinkled face (before furiously debating, the moment she was out of earshot,
what expensive new cosmetic procedure Mrs. Young must have endured).
By the time Eleanor arrived at Carol’s bedroom, the Bible study regulars—Daisy Foo,
Lorena Lim, and Nadine Shaw—would be assembled and waiting. Here, sheltered from
the harsh equatorial heat, these longtime friends would sprawl languorously about the
room, analyzing the Bible verses assigned in their study guides. The place of honor on
Carol’s Qing dynasty Huanghuali † bed was always reserved for Eleanor, for even though
this was Carol’s house and she was the one married to the billionaire financier, Carol
still deferred to her. This was the way things had been since their childhood as
neighbors growing up on Serangoon Road, mainly because, coming from a Chinese-
speaking family, Carol had always felt inferior to Eleanor, who was brought up
speaking English first. (The others also kowtowed to her, because even among these
exceedingly well-married ladies, Eleanor had trumped them all by becoming Mrs.
Philip Young.)
Today’s lunch started off with braised quail and abalone over hand-pulled noodles,
and Daisy (married to the rubber magnate Q. T. Foo but born a Wong, of the Ipoh
Wongs) fought to separate the starchy noodles while trying to find 1 Timothy in her
King James Bible. With her bobbed perm and her rimless reading glasses perched at the
tip of her nose, she looked like the principal of a girls’ school. At sixty-four, she was the
oldest of the ladies, and even though everyone else was on the New American
Standard, Daisy always insisted on reading from her version, saying, “I went to convent
school and was taught by nuns, you know, so it will always be King James for me.”
Tiny droplets of garlicky broth splattered onto the tissue-like page, but she managed to
keep the good book open with one hand while deftly maneuvering her ivory chopsticks
with the other.
Nadine, meanwhile, was busily flipping through her Bible—the latest issue of
Singapore Tattle. Every month, she couldn’t wait to see how many pictures of her
daughter Francesca—the celebrated “Shaw Foods heiress”—were featured in the
“Soirées” section of the magazine. Nadine herself was a fixture in the social pages,
what with her Kabuki-esque makeup, tropical-fruit-size jewels, and over-teased hair.
“Aiyah, Carol, Tattle devoted two full pages to your Christian Helpers fashion gala!”
Nadine exclaimed.
“Already? I didn’t realize it would come out so quickly,” Carol remarked. Unlike
Nadine, she was always a bit embarrassed to find herself in magazines, even though
editors constantly fawned over her “classic Shanghainese songstress looks.” Carol
simply felt obligated to attend a few charity galas every week as any good born-again
Christian should, and because her husband kept reminding her that “being Mother
Teresa is good for business.”
Nadine scanned the glossy pages up and down. “That Lena Teck has really put on
weight since her Mediterranean cruise, hasn’t she? It must be those all-you-can-eat
buffets—you always feel like you have to eat more to get your money’s worth. She
better be careful—all those Teck women end up with fat ankles.”
“I don’t think she cares how fat her ankles get. Do you know how much she inherited
when her father died? I heard she and her five brothers got seven hundred million
each,” Lorena said from her chaise lounge.
“Is that all? I thought Lena had at least a billion.” Nadine sniffed. “Hey, so strange
Elle, how come there’s no picture of your pretty niece Astrid? I remember all the
photographers swarming around her that day.”
“Those photographers were wasting their time. Astrid’s pictures are never published
anywhere. Her mother made a deal with all the magazine editors back when she was a
teenager,” Eleanor explained.
“Why on earth would she do that?”
“Don’t you know my husband’s family by now? They would rather die than appear in
print,” Eleanor said.
“What, have they become too grand to be seen mingling with other Singaporeans?”
Nadine said indignantly.
“Aiyah, Nadine, there’s a difference between being grand and being discreet,” Daisy
commented, knowing full well that families like the Leongs and the Youngs guarded
their privacy to the point of obsession.
“Grand or not, I think Astrid is wonderful,” Carol chimed in. “You know, I’m not
supposed to say, but Astrid wrote the biggest check at the fund-raiser. And she insisted
that I keep it anonymous. But her donation was what made this year’s gala a record-
breaking success.”
Eleanor eyed the pretty new Mainland Chinese maid entering the room, wondering if
this was another one of the girls that the dato’ had handpicked from that “employment
agency” he frequented in Suzhou, the city reputed to have the most beautiful women in
China. “What do we have today?” she asked Carol, as the maid placed a familiar bulky
mother-of-pearl chest beside the bed.
“Oh, I wanted to show you what I bought on my Burma trip.”
Eleanor flipped open the lid of the chest eagerly and began methodically taking out
the stacked black velvet trays. One of her favorite parts of Thursday Bible study was
looking at Carol’s latest acquisitions. Soon the bed was lined with trays containing a
blinding array of jewels. “What intricate crosses—I didn’t realize they did such good
setting work in Burma!”
“No, no, those crosses are Harry Winston,” Carol corrected. “The rubies are from
Burma.”
Lorena got up from her lunch and headed straight for the bed, holding up one of the
lychee-size rubies to the light. “Aiyah, you have to be careful in Burma because so
many of their rubies are synthetically treated to boost the redness.” Being the wife of
Lawrence Lim (of the L’Orient Jewelry Lims), Lorena could speak on this topic with
authority.
“I thought rubies from Burma were supposed to be the best,” Eleanor remarked.
“Ladies, you need to stop calling it Burma. It’s been called Myanmar for more than
twenty years now,” Daisy corrected.
“Alamak! You sound just like Nicky, always correcting me!” Eleanor said.
“Hey, speaking of Nick, when does he arrive from New York? Isn’t he the best man at
Colin Khoo’s wedding?” Daisy asked.
“Yes, yes. But you know my son—I’m always the last to know anything!” Eleanor
complained.
“Isn’t he staying with you?”
“Of course. He always stays with us first, before heading to Old Lady’s,” Eleanor said,
using her nickname for her mother-in-law.
“Well,” Daisy continued, lowering her voice a bit, “what do you think Old Lady will
do about his guest?”
“What do you mean? What guest?” Eleanor asked.
“The one … he’s bringing … to the wedding,” Daisy replied slowly, her eyes darting
around at the other ladies mischievously, knowing they all knew to whom she was
referring.
“What are you talking about? Who is he bringing?” Eleanor said, a little confused.
“His latest girlfriend, lah!” Lorena revealed.
“No such thing! No way Nicky has a girlfriend,” Eleanor insisted.
“Why is it so hard for you to believe that your son has a girlfriend?” Lorena asked.
She had always found Nick to be the most dashing young man of his generation, and
with all that Young money, it was such a pity her good-for-nothing daughter Tiffany
never managed to attract him.
“But surely you’ve heard about this girl? The one from New York,” Daisy said in a
whisper, relishing that she was the one breaking the news to Eleanor.
“An American girl? Nicky wouldn’t dare do such a thing. Daisy, your information is
always ta pah kay!” ‡
“What do you mean? My news is not ta pah kay—it comes from the most reliable
source! Anyway, I hear she’s Chinese,” Daisy offered.
“Really? What’s her name, and where is she from? Daisy, if you tell me she’s from
Mainland China, I think I’ll have a stroke,” Eleanor warned.
“I heard she’s from Taiwan,” Daisy said carefully.
“Oh my goodness, I hope she’s not one of those Taiwanese tornadoes!” Nadine
cackled.
“What do you mean by that?” Eleanor asked.
“You know how notorious those Taiwanese girls can be. They swoop in unexpectedly,
the men fall head over heels, and before you know it they are gone, but not before
sucking up every last dollar, just like a tornado,” Nadine explained. “I know so many
men who have fallen prey—think about Mrs. K. C. Tang’s son Gerald, whose wife
cleaned him out and ran off with all the Tang heirlooms. Or poor Annie Sim, who lost
her husband to that lounge singer from Taipei.”
At this moment, Carol’s husband entered the room. “Hello, hello, ladies. How is Jesus
time today?” he said, puffing away on his cigar and swirling his goblet of Hennessy,
looking every portly inch the caricature of an Asian tycoon.
“Hello, Dato’!” the ladies said in unison, hurriedly shifting themselves into more
decorous positions.
“Dato’, Daisy here is trying to give me a stroke! She’s telling everyone that Nicky has
a new Taiwanese girlfriend!” Eleanor cried.
“Relax, Lealea. Taiwanese girls are lovely—they really know how to take care of a
man, and maybe she’ll be prettier than all those spoiled, inbred girls you try to
matchmake him to.” The dato’ grinned. “Anyway,” he continued, suddenly lowering his
voice, “if I were you, I would be less worried about young Nicholas, and more worried
about Sina Land right now.”
“Why? What’s happening to Sina Land?” Eleanor asked.
“Sina Land toh tuew. It’s going to collapse,” the dato’ declared with a satisfied grin.
“But Sina Land is blue-chip. How can that be? My brother even told me they have all
these new projects in western China,” Lorena argued.
“The Chinese government, my source assures me, has pulled out of that huge new
development in Xinjiang. I just unloaded my shares and I’m shorting a hundred
thousand shares every hour until market closes.” With that, the dato’ expelled a big
puff of smoke from his Cohiba and pressed a button next to the bed. The vast wall of
glass facing the sparkling swimming pool began to tilt forty-five degrees like an
enormous cantilevered garage door, and the dato’ lumbered out into the garden toward
the main house.
For a few seconds, the room went absolutely still. You could almost hear the wheels
in each woman’s head whirling into overdrive. Daisy suddenly jumped up from her
chair, spilling the tray of noodles onto the floor. “Quick, quick! Where’s my handbag? I
need to call my broker!”
Eleanor and Lorena both scrambled for their cell phones as well. Nadine had her
stockbroker on speed dial and was already screaming into her phone, “Dump all of it!
SINA LAND. Yes. Dump it all! I just heard from the horse’s mouth that it’s gone case!”
Lorena was on the other end of the bed, cupping her phone close to her mouth.
“Desmond, I don’t care, please just start shorting it now.”
Daisy began to hyperventilate. “Sum toong, ah! § I’m losing millions by the second!
Where is my bloody broker? Don’t tell me that moron is still at lunch!”
Carol calmly reached for the touch-screen panel by her bedside table. “Mei Mei, can
you please come in and clean up a spill?” Then she closed her eyes, lifted her arms into
the air, and began to pray aloud: “Oh Jesus, our personal lord and savior, blessed be your
name. We come to you humbly asking for your forgiveness today, as we have all sinned
against you. Thank you for showering your blessings upon us. Thank you Lord Jesus for the
fellowship that we shared today, for the nourishing food we enjoyed, for the power of your
holy word. Please watch over dear Sister Eleanor, Sister Lorena, Sister Daisy, and Sister
Nadine, as they try to sell their Sina Land shares …”
Carol opened her eyes for a moment, noting with satisfaction that Eleanor at least
was praying along with her. But of course, she couldn’t know that behind those serene
eyelids, Eleanor was praying for something else entirely. A Taiwanese girl! Please God,
let it not be true.
* A highly regarded honorific title in Malaysia (similar to a British knighthood) conferred by a hereditary royal ruler
of one of the nine Malay states. The title is often used by Malay royals to reward powerful businessmen, politicians,
and philanthropists in Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia, and some people spend decades sucking up just to get the
title. The wife of a dato’ is called a datin.
† Literally “yellow flowering pear,” an exceedingly rare type of rosewood now virtually extinct. In recent decades,
Huanghuali furniture has become highly sought after by discerning collectors. After all, it goes so well with mid-
century modern.
‡ Malay for “not accurate.”
§ Cantonese for “my heart aches.”
3
Rachel Chu
NEW YORK
It would be just after dinnertime in Cupertino, and on the nights she wasn’t at Nick’s, it
became Rachel’s habit to call her mother right as she was getting into bed.
“Guess who just closed the deal on the big house on Laurel Glen Drive?” Kerry Chu
boasted excitedly in Mandarin as soon as she picked up the phone.
“Wow, Mom, congratulations! Isn’t that your third sale this month?” Rachel asked.
“Yes! I broke last year’s office record! You see, I knew I made the right decision to
join Mimi Shen at the Los Altos office,” Kerry said with satisfaction.
“You’re going to make Realtor of the Year again, I just know it,” Rachel replied, re-
fluffing the pillow under her head. “Well, I have some exciting news too … Nick
invited me to come with him to Asia this summer.”
“He did?” Kerry remarked, her voice lowering an octave.
“Mom, don’t start getting any ideas,” Rachel warned, knowing that tone of her
mother’s so well.
“Hiyah! What ideas? When you brought Nick home last Thanksgiving, everyone who
saw you two lovebirds together said you were perfect for each other. Now it’s his turn
to introduce you to his family. Do you think he’s going to propose?” Kerry gushed,
unable to contain herself.
“Mom, we’ve never once talked about marriage,” Rachel said, trying to downplay it.
As excited as she was about all the possibilities that hung over the trip, she wasn’t
going to encourage her mom for the time being. Her mother was already far too
invested in her happiness, and she didn’t want to get her hopes up … too much.
Still, Kerry was brimming with anticipation. “Daughter, I know men like Nick. He can
act the bohemian scholar all he wants, but I know deep down he is the marrying kind.
He wants to settle down and have many children, so there is no more time to waste.”
“Mom, just stop!”
“Besides, how many nights a week do you already spend at his place? I’m shocked
you two haven’t moved in together yet.”
“You’re the only Chinese mom I know who’s actually encouraging her daughter to
shack up with a guy.” Rachel laughed.
“I’m the only Chinese mother with an unmarried daughter who’s almost thirty! Do
you know all the inquiries I get almost every day? I’m getting tired of defending you.
Why, even yesterday, I ran into Min Chung at Peet’s Coffee. ‘I know you wanted your
daughter to get her career established first, but isn’t it time that girl got married?’ she
asked. You know her daughter Jessica is engaged to the number-seven guy at
Facebook, right?”
“Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know the whole story. Instead of an engagement ring, he
endowed a scholarship in her name at Stanford,” Rachel said in a bored tone.
“And she’s nowhere as pretty as you,” Kerry said indignantly. “All your uncles and
aunties gave up on you a long time ago, but I always knew you were waiting for the
right one. Of course, you had to choose a professor just like yourself. At least your
children will get a discount on tuition—that’s the only way the two of you can afford to
put them through college.”
“Speaking of uncles and aunties, promise me you won’t go telling everyone right
away. Please?” Rachel pleaded.
“Hiyah! Okay, okay. I know you are always so cautious, and you don’t want to be
disappointed, but I just know in my heart what’s going to happen,” her mother said
merrily.
“Well, until something happens, there’s no point making a big deal out of it,” Rachel
insisted.
“So where will you be staying in Singapore?”
“At his parents’ place, I guess.”
“Do they live in a house or an apartment?” Kerry asked.
“I have no idea.”
“You must find out these things!”
“Why does it matter? Are you going to try to sell them a house in Singapore?”
“I’ll tell you why it matters—do you know what the sleeping arrangements will be?”
“Sleeping arrangements? What are you talking about, Mom?”
“Hiyah, do you know if you will be in a guest bedroom or sharing a bed with him?”
“It never occurred to me—”
“Daughter, that is the most important thing. You mustn’t assume that Nick’s parents
are going to be as liberal-minded as I am. You are going to Singapore, and those
Chinese Singaporeans are the most uptight of all the Chinese, you know! I don’t want
his parents to think I didn’t raise you properly.”
Rachel sighed. She knew her mother meant well, but as usual she had managed to
stress her out about details Rachel never would have imagined.
“Now, we must plan what you will bring as a present for Nick’s parents,” Kerry
continued eagerly. “Find out what Nick’s father likes to drink. Scotch? Vodka?
Whiskey? I have so many spare bottles of Johnny Walker Red left over from the office
Christmas party, I can send you one.”
“Mom, I’m not going to cart over a bottle of booze that they can get there. Let me
think of the perfect present to bring them from America.”
“Oh, I know just the thing for Nick’s mother! You should go to Macy’s and buy her
one of those pretty gold powder compacts from Esteé Lauder. They are having a special
offer right now, and it comes with a free gift—an expensive-looking leather pouch with
lipstick and perfume and eye-cream samples. Trust me, every Asian woman loves those
free gifts—”
“Don’t worry, Mom, I’ll take care of it.”
4
Nicholas Young
NEW YORK
Nick was slouched on his battered leather sofa grading term papers when Rachel
casually brought it up. “So … what’s the story when we’re staying at your parents’
place? Are we sharing a bedroom, or would they be scandalized?”
Nick cocked his head. “Hmm. I suppose we’ll be in the same room—”
“You suppose or you know?”
“Don’t worry, once we arrive everything will get sorted.”
Get sorted. Normally Rachel found Nick’s Britishy phrases so charming, but in this
instance it was a tad frustrating. Sensing her unease, Nick got up, walked over to where
she was sitting, and kissed the top of her head tenderly. “Relax—my parents aren’t the
kind of people who pay any attention to sleeping arrangements.”
Rachel wondered if that was really true. She tried to go back to reading the State
Department’s Southeast Asia travel advisory website. As she sat there in the glow of the
laptop, Nick couldn’t help but marvel at how beautiful his girlfriend looked even at the
end of a long day. How did he get so lucky? Everything about her—from the dewy just-
back-from-a-morning-run-on-the-beach complexion to the obsidian-black hair that
stopped just short of her collarbone—conveyed a natural, uncomplicated beauty so
different from the red-carpet-ready girls he had grown up around.
Now Rachel was absentmindedly rubbing her index finger back and forth over her
upper lip, her brow slightly furrowed. Nick knew that gesture well. What was she
worrying about? Ever since he had invited Rachel to Asia a few days ago, the questions
had been piling on steadily. Where were they staying? What gift should she bring for
his parents? What had Nick told them about her? Nick wished he could stop that
brilliant analytical mind of hers from overthinking every aspect of the trip. He was
beginning to see that Astrid had been right. Astrid was not only his cousin, she was his
closest female confidant, and he had first fielded the idea of inviting Rachel to
Singapore during their phone conversation a week ago.
“First of all, you know you’ll be instantly escalating things to the next level, don’t
you? Is this what you really want?” Astrid asked point-blank.
“No. Well … maybe. This is just a summer holiday.”
“Come on, Nicky, this is not ‘just a summer holiday.’ That’s not how women think,
and you know it. You’ve been dating seriously for almost two years now. You’re thirty-
two, and up till now you have never brought anyone home. This is major. Everyone is
going to assume that you’re going to—”
“Please,” Nick warned, “don’t say the m-word.”
“See—you know that is precisely what will be on everyone’s mind. Most of all, I can
guarantee you it’s on Rachel’s mind.”
Nick sighed. Why did everything have to be so fraught with significance? This always
happened whenever he sought the female perspective. Maybe calling Astrid was a bad
idea. She was older than him by just six months, but sometimes she slipped into big-
sister mode too much. He preferred the capricious, devil-may-care side of Astrid. “I just
want to show Rachel my part of the world, that’s all, no strings attached,” he tried to
explain. “And I guess part of me wants to see how she’ll react to it.”
“By ‘it’ you mean our family,” Astrid said.
“No, not just our family. My friends, the island, everything. Can’t I go on holiday with
my girlfriend without it becoming a diplomatic incident?”
Astrid paused for a moment, trying to assess the situation. This was the most serious
her cousin had ever gotten with anyone. Even if he wasn’t ready to admit it to himself,
she knew that on a subconscious level, at least, he was taking the next crucial step on
the way to the altar. But that step needed to be handled with extreme care. Was Nicky
truly prepared for all the land mines he would be setting off? He could be rather
oblivious to the intricacies of the world he had been born into. Maybe he had always
been shielded by their grandmother, since he was the apple of her eye. Or maybe Nick
had just spent too many years living outside of Asia. In their world, you did not bring
home some unknown girl unannounced.
“You know I think Rachel is lovely. I really do. But if you invite her to come home
with you, it will change things between you, whether you like it or not. Now, I’m not
concerned about whether your relationship can handle it—I know it can. My worry is
more about how everyone else is going to react. You know how small the island is. You
know how things can get with …” Astrid’s voice was suddenly drowned out by the
staccato scream of a police siren.
“That was a strange noise. Where are you right now?” Nick asked.
“I’m on the street,” Astrid replied.
“In Singapore?”
“No, in Paris.”
“What? Paris?” Nick was confused.
“Yep, I’m on rue de Berri, and two police cars just whizzed by.”
“I thought you were in Singapore. Sorry for calling so late—I thought it was morning
for you.”
“No, no, it’s fine. It’s only one thirty. I’m just walking back to the hotel.”
“Is Michael with you?”
“No, he’s in China for work.”
“What are you up to in Paris?”
“Just my annual spring trip, you know.”
“Oh, right.” Nick remembered that Astrid spent every April in Paris for her couture
fittings. He had met her in Paris once before, and he could still recall the fascination
and tedium he felt sitting in the Yves Saint Laurent atelier on avenue Marceau,
watching three seamstresses buzz around Astrid as she stood Zen-like, swathed in an
airy confection for what seemed like ten hours, guzzling down Diet Cokes to fight off
her jet lag. She looked to him like a figure from a baroque painting, a Spanish infanta
submitting to an archaic costuming ritual straight out of the seventeenth century. (It
was a “particularly uninspired season,” Astrid had told him, and she was buying “only”
twelve pieces that spring, spending well over a million euros.) Nick didn’t even want to
imagine how much money she must be blowing on this trip with no one there to rein
her in.
“I miss Paris. It’s been ages since I’ve been. Remember our crazy trip there with
Eddie?” he said.
“Aiyoh, please don’t remind me! That’s the last time I ever share a suite with that
rascal!” Astrid shuddered, thinking she would never be able to erase the image of her
Hong Kong cousin with that amputee stripper and those profiteroles.
“Are you staying in the Penthouse at the George V?”
“As always.”
“You’re such a creature of habit. It would be super-easy to assassinate you.”
“Why don’t you try?”
“Well, next time you’re in Paris, let me know. I might just surprise you and hop the
pond with my special assassin’s kit.”
“Are you going to knock me out, put me in a bathtub, and pour acid all over me?”
“No, for you there will be a far more elegant solution.”
“Well, come and get me. I’ll be here till early May. Don’t you get some sort of spring
break soon? Why not bring Rachel to Paris for a long weekend?”
“Wish I could. Spring break was last month, and we interim-adjunct-sub-associate
professors don’t get any extra vacation days. But Rachel and I have the whole summer
off, which is why I want her to come home with me.”
Astrid sighed. “You know what will happen the minute you land at Changi Airport
with this girl on your arm, don’t you? You know how brutal it was for Michael when
we first started going out publicly. That was five years ago, and he’s still getting used
to it. Do you really think Rachel is ready for all that? Are you ready for it?”
Nick remained silent. He was taking in everything Astrid had to say, but his mind was
already made up. He was ready. He was absolutely head over heels in love with Rachel,
and it was time to show her off to the whole world.
“Nicky, how much does she know?” Astrid asked.
“About what?”
“About our family.”
“Not much. You’re the only one she’s met. She thinks you’ve got great taste in shoes
and that your husband spoils you rotten. That’s about it.”
“You probably want to prepare her a bit,” Astrid said with a laugh.
“What is there to prepare her for?” Nick asked breezily.
“Listen, Nicky,” Astrid said, her tone getting serious. “You can’t just throw Rachel
into the deep end like this. You need to prep her, do you hear me?”
5
Astrid Leong
PARIS
Every May 1, the L’Herme-Pierres—one of France’s great banking families—would host
Le Bal du Muguet, a sumptuous ball that was the highlight of the spring social season.
This year, as Astrid entered the arched passageway leading into the L’Herme-Pierres’
splendid hôtel particulier on Île Saint-Louis, she was handed a delicate sprig of flowers
by a footman in smart black-and-gold livery. “It’s after Charles IX, you know. He would
present lilies of the valley to all the ladies at Fontainebleau every May Day,” a woman
wearing a tiara explained to her as they emerged into the courtyard where hundreds of
miniature eighteenth-century hot-air balloons floated among the topiaries.
Astrid barely had time to take in the delightful sight when the Vicomtesse Nathalie de
L’Herme-Pierre pounced on her. “I’m so glad you could make it,” Nathalie effused,
greeting Astrid with quadruple cheek kisses. “My goodness, is that linen? Only you
could get away with wearing a simple linen dress to a ball, Astrid!” The hostess
laughed, admiring the delicate Grecian folds of Astrid’s buttercup-yellow gown. “Wait a
minute … is this an original Madame Grès?” Nathalie asked, realizing that she had seen
a similar dress at the Musée Galliera.
“From her early period,” Astrid replied, almost embarrassed to have been found out.
“But of course. My goodness, Astrid, you’ve outdone yourself once again. How on
earth did you get your hands on an early Grès?” Nathalie asked in awe. Recovering
herself, she whispered, “I hope you don’t mind, but I have put you next to Grégoire. He
is being a beast tonight, as he thinks I am still fucking the Croatian. You are the only
person I can trust next to him at dinner. But at least you’ll have Louis on your left.”
“Don’t worry about me. I always enjoy catching up with your husband, and it will be
a treat to sit next to Louis—I just saw his new film the other day.”
“Wasn’t it a pretentious bore? Hated the black-and-white, but at least Louis looked
edible with his clothes off. Anyway, thank you for being my savior. Are you sure you
have to leave tomorrow?” the hostess asked with a pout.
“I’ve been gone almost a month! I’m afraid my son will forget who I am if I stay one
more day,” Astrid answered as she was ushered along into the grand foyer, where
Nathalie’s mother-in-law, the Comtesse Isabelle de L’Herme-Pierre, presided over the
receiving line.
Isabelle let out a small gasp when she caught sight of Astrid. “Astrid, quelle surprise!”
“Well, I wasn’t sure that I would be able to attend until the last minute,” Astrid said
apologetically, smiling at the stiff-looking grande dame standing beside Comtesse
Isabelle. The woman did not smile back. Rather, she tilted her head ever so slightly as
if appraising every inch of Astrid, the gigantic emerald earrings fastened to her long
earlobes swaying precariously.
“Astrid Leong, permit me to present my dear friend Baronne Marie-Hélène de la
Durée.”
The baronne nodded curtly, before turning back to the comtesse and resuming their
conversation. As soon as Astrid had moved on, Marie-Hélène said to Isabelle, sotto voce,
“Did you notice that necklace she was wearing? I saw it at JAR last week. It’s
unbelievable what these girls can get their hands on nowadays. Tell me, Isabelle, whom
does she belong to?”
“Marie-Hélène, Astrid is not a kept woman. We’ve known her family for years.”
“Oh? Who is her family?” Marie-Hélène asked in astonishment.
“The Leongs are a Chinese family from Singapore.”
“Ah yes, I’ve heard that the Chinese are getting quite rich these days. In fact, I read
that there are now more millionaires in Asia than in all of Europe. Who would have
ever imagined?”
“No, no, I’m afraid you don’t quite understand. Astrid’s people have been wealthy for
generations. Her father is one of Laurent’s biggest clients,” Isabelle whispered.
“My dear, are you giving away all my secrets again?” Comte Laurent de L’Herme-
Pierre remarked as he rejoined his wife in the receiving line.
“Not at all. Merely enlightening Marie-Hélène about the Leongs,” Isabelle replied,
flicking away a speck of lint on her husband’s grosgrain lapel.
“Ah, the Leongs. Why? Is the ravishing Astrid here tonight?”
“You just missed her. But don’t worry, you have all night to ogle her across the dinner
table,” Isabelle teased, explaining to Marie-Hélène, “Both my husband and my son have
been obsessed with Astrid for years.”
“Well, why not? A girl like Astrid only exists to feed obsession,” Laurent remarked.
Isabelle smacked her husband’s arm in mock outrage.
“Laurent, tell me, how is it possible that these Chinese have been rich for
generations?” Marie-Hélène inquired. “I thought they were all penniless Communists in
drab little Mao uniforms not too long ago.”
“Well, first of all, you must understand that there are two kinds of Chinese. There are
the Chinese from Mainland China, who made their fortunes in the past decade like all
the Russians, but then there are the Overseas Chinese. These are the ones who left China
long before the Communists came in, in many cases hundreds of years ago, and spread
throughout the rest of Asia, quietly amassing great fortunes over time. If you look at all
the countries in Southeast Asia—especially Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia—you’ll see
that virtually all the commerce is controlled by the Overseas Chinese. Like the Liems in
Indonesia, the Tans in the Philippines, the Leongs in—”
His wife cut in. “Let me just say this: we visited Astrid’s family a few years ago. You
can’t imagine how staggeringly rich these people are, Marie-Hélène. The houses, the
servants, the style in which they live. It makes the Arnaults look like peasants. What’s
more, I’ve been told that Astrid is a double heiress—there’s an even more enormous
fortune on her mother’s side.”
“Is that so?” Marie-Hélène said in astonishment, staring across the room at the girl
with renewed interest. “Well, she is rather soignée,” she conceded.
“Oh, she’s incredibly chic—one of the few from her generation who gets it right,” the
comtesse decreed. “François-Marie tells me Astrid has a couture collection that rivals
the Sheikha of Qatar’s. She never attends the shows, because she loathes to be
photographed, but she goes straight to the ateliers and snaps up dozens of dresses every
season as if they were macarons.”
Astrid was in the salon admiring the Balthus portrait over the mantelpiece when
someone behind her said, “That’s Laurent’s mother, you know.” It was the Baronne
Marie-Hélène de la Durée, this time attempting a smile on her tightly pulled face.
“I thought it might be,” Astrid replied.
“Chérie, I must tell you how much I adore your necklace. In fact, I had admired it at
Monsieur Rosenthal’s a few weeks ago, but sadly, he informed me it was already
spoken for,” the baronne gushed. “I can see now that you were clearly meant to wear
it.”
“Thank you, but you’ve got the most magnificent earrings,” Astrid replied sweetly,
rather amused by the woman’s sudden about-face.
“Isabelle tells me that you are from Singapour. I have heard so much about your
country, about how it’s become the Switzerland of Asia. My granddaughter is making a
trip to Asia this summer. Perhaps you will be kind enough to give her some advice?”
“Of course,” Astrid said politely, thinking to herself, Wow—it took only five minutes for
this lady to go from snooty to suck-up. It was quite disappointing, really. Paris was her
escape, and here she strove to be invisible, to be just another of the countless Asian
tourists who crammed eagerly into the boutiques along the Faubourg-Saint-Honoré. It
was this luxury of anonymity that made her love the City of Lights. But living here
several years back had changed all that. Her parents, concerned that she was living
alone in a foreign city with no proper chaperone, made the mistake of alerting friends
in Paris, like the L’Herme-Pierres. Word had gotten out, and suddenly she was no
longer just the jeune fille renting a loft in the Marais. She was Harry Leong’s daughter, or
Shang Su Yi’s granddaughter. It was soooo frustrating. Of course, she should be used to
this by now, to people talking about her as soon as she left the room. It had been going
on practically since the day she was born.
To understand why, one had to first consider the obvious—her astonishing beauty.
Astrid wasn’t attractive in the typical almond-eyed Hong Kong starlet sort of way, nor
was she the flawless celestial-maiden type. One could say that Astrid’s eyes were set too
far apart, and her jawline—so similar to the men on her mother’s side—was too
prominent for a girl. Yet somehow with her delicate nose, bee-stung lips, and long
naturally wavy hair, it all came together to form an inexplicably alluring vision. She
was always that girl stopped on the street by modeling scouts, though her mother
fended them off brusquely. Astrid was not going to be modeling for anyone, and
certainly not for money. Such things were far beneath her.
And that was the other, more essential detail about Astrid: she was born into the
uppermost echelon of Asian wealth—a secretive, rarefied circle of families virtually
unknown to outsiders who possessed immeasurably vast fortunes. For starters, her
father hailed from the Penang Leongs, a venerable Straits Chinese * family that held a
monopoly over the palm oil industry. But adding even more oomph, her mother was
the eldest daughter of Sir James Young and the even more imperial Shang Su Yi.
Astrid’s aunt Catherine had married a minor Thai prince. Another was married to the
renowned Hong Kong cardiologist Malcolm Cheng.
One could go on for hours diagramming all the dynastic links in Astrid’s family tree,
but from any angle you looked at it, Astrid’s pedigree was nothing short of
extraordinary. And as Astrid took her place at the candlelit banquet table in the
L’Herme-Pierres’ long gallery, surrounded by the gleaming Louis XV Sèvres and rose-
period Picassos, she could not have suspected just how extraordinary life was about to
become.
* The Straits Chinese, also known as the Peranakans, are the descendants of late-fifteenth- and sixteenth-century
Chinese immigrants to the Malaya region during the colonial era. They were the elites of Singapore, English-
educated and more loyal to the British than to China. Often intermarried with the native Malays, the Straits Chinese
created a unique culture that is a hybrid of Chinese, Malay, English, Dutch, and Indian influences. Peranakan
cuisine, long the cornerstone of Singaporean and Malaysian cooking, has become all the rage with foodies in the
West, although visiting Asians are dumbstruck by the outrageous prices charged in trendy restaurants.
6
The Chengs
HONG KONG
Most people driving past the squat grayish-brown building on a busy intersection of
Causeway Bay would likely assume it was some sort of government health office, but
the Chinese Athletic Association was actually one of Hong Kong’s most exclusive
private clubs. Despite its rather perfunctory name, it was the first Chinese-founded
sports facility in the former British Crown colony. It boasted the legendary gambling
tycoon Stanley Lo as its honorary president, and its restrictive membership had an
eight-year waiting list open only to the most established families.
The CAA’s public rooms were still firmly entrenched in late-seventies chrome-and-
leather decor, since members voted to spend all the money on updating the sports
facilities. Only the acclaimed restaurant had been revamped in the last few years into a
plush dining room with pale-rose brocade walls and windows overlooking the main
tennis courts. The round tables were strategically aligned so that everyone was seated
with a view of the restaurant’s main door, allowing its esteemed members to make a
grand entrance in their après-sport outfits and making mealtimes a prime spectator
sport.
Every Sunday afternoon, the Cheng family would come together without fail for
lunch at the CAA. No matter how busy or hectic the week had been, everyone knew
that Sunday dim sum at the Clubhouse, as they called it, was mandatory attendance by
all family members who were in town. Dr. Malcolm Cheng was Asia’s most esteemed
heart surgeon. So prized were his skilled hands that he was famous for always wearing
lambskin gloves—made specially for him by Dunhill—to protect his precious hands
whenever he ventured out in public, and he took additional measures to safeguard
them from the wear and tear of driving, opting instead to be chauffeured in his Rolls-
Royce Silver Spirit.
This was something his well-brought-up wife, the former Alexandra “Alix” Young of
Singapore, felt to be overly ostentatious, so she preferred to call for a taxi wherever
possible and allow her husband the exclusive use of his car and driver. “After all,” she
was keen to say, “he’s saving people’s lives every day and I’m just a housewife.” This
self-deprecation was standard behavior for Alexandra, even though she was the true
architect of their fortune.
As a bored doctor’s wife, Alexandra began channeling every cent of her husband’s
considerable earnings into properties just as the Hong Kong housing boom was taking
off. She found that she had a preternatural talent for timing the market, so beginning in
the oil-recession days of the seventies, through the Communist-panic sell-off of the mid-
eighties and the Asian financial crisis of 1997, Alexandra was always snapping up
properties when they hit rock bottom and selling at the peak. By the middle of the first
decade of the new century, with Hong Kong property going for more money per square
foot than anywhere else in the world, the Chengs found themselves sitting on one of
the largest privately held real estate portfolios on the island.
Sunday lunch gave Malcolm and his wife a chance to inspect their children and
grandchildren on a weekly basis, and it was a duty they undertook with utter
seriousness. For in spite of all the advantages the Cheng children had growing up,
Malcolm and Alexandra were constantly worrying about them. (Actually, Alexandra
was the one doing most of the worrying.)
Their youngest son, Alistair, “the hopeless one,” was the pampered ne’er-do-well who
had just barely scraped through Sydney University and was now doing something or
other in the Hong Kong film industry. He had recently become involved with Kitty
Pong, a soap-opera star who claimed she was from “a good Taiwanese family,” even
though everyone else in the Cheng family doubted it, since her spoken Mandarin took
on a distinctive northern China accent rather than the more cutesy inflections of
Taiwanese Mandarin.
Their daughter, Cecilia, “the horsey one,” had developed a passion for dressage at an
early age and was constantly dealing with her temperamental horse or her
temperamental husband, Tony, an Australian commodities trader whom Malcolm and
Alexandra secretly nicknamed “the Convict.” A “full-time mother,” Cecilia actually
spent more time on the international equestrian circuit than raising their son, Jake.
(Due to all the hours he spent with their Filipino maids, Jake was becoming fluent in
Tagalog; he could also do a brilliant impression of Sinatra’s “My Way.”)
And then there was Eddie, their firstborn. To all appearances, Edison Cheng was “the
perfect one.” He had breezed through Cambridge Judge Business School with
distinction, done a stint at Cazenove in London, and was now a rising star in Hong
Kong’s private banking world. He had married Fiona Tung, who hailed from a
politically connected family, and they had three very studious, well-behaved children.
But privately, Alexandra worried the most about Eddie. In the last few years, he was
spending far too much time hanging around with these dubious Mainland Chinese
billionaires, flying all over Asia every week to attend parties, and she worried how this
might be affecting his health and his family life.
Today’s lunch was especially important since Alexandra wanted to plan the logistics
of the family trip next month to Singapore for the Khoo wedding. It was the first time
the entire family—parents, children, grandchildren, servants, and nannies included—
was traveling together, and Alexandra wanted to make sure everything went off
perfectly. At one o’clock, the family began filtering in from all corners: Malcolm from a
mixed-doubles tennis match; Alexandra from church with Cecilia, Tony, and Jake;
Fiona and her children from their weekend tutors; and Alistair from rolling out of bed
fifteen minutes ago.
Eddie was the last to arrive, and as usual he was on his phone, coming to the table
and ignoring everyone, chattering loudly in Cantonese on his Bluetooth earpiece. When
he finally finished his call, he flashed his family a self-satisfied grin. “It’s all sorted! I
just spoke with Leo, and he wants us to use his family jet,” Eddie declared, referring to
his best friend Leo Ming.
“For all of us to fly to Singapore?” Alexandra asked, a bit confused.
“Yes, of course!”
Fiona raised an immediate objection. “I’m not sure that’s such a good idea. First, I
really don’t think the entire family should be traveling together on the same plane.
What would happen if there was an accident? Second, we shouldn’t be asking such a
favor of Leo.”
“I knew you were going to say that, Fi,” Eddie began. “That’s why I came up with this
plan: Daddy and Mummy should go a day earlier with Alistair; Cecilia, Tony, and Jake
can fly with us the next day; and later in the day, the nannies can bring our children.”
“That’s outrageous. How can you even think of taking advantage of Leo’s plane like
that?” Fiona exclaimed.
“Fi, he’s my best friend and he couldn’t care less how much we use the plane,” Eddie
retorted.
“What kind of jet is it? A Gulfstream? A Falcon?” Tony asked.
Cecilia dug her nails into her husband’s arm, annoyed at his eagerness, and cut in.
“Why do your kids get to fly separately while my son has to travel with us?”
“What about Kitty? She’s coming too,” Alistair asked quietly.
Everyone at the table glared at Alistair in horror. “Nay chee seen, ah!” * Eddie snapped.
Alistair was indignant. “I already RSVP’d for her. And Colin told me that he couldn’t
wait to meet her. She’s a big star, and I—”
“In the New Territories maybe a couple of idiots watching trashy soap operas might
know who she is, but trust me, nobody in Singapore has ever heard of her,” Eddie cut
in.
“That’s not true—she’s one of Asia’s fastest-rising stars. And that’s beside the point—I
want all our relatives in Singapore to meet her,” Alistair said.
Alexandra considered the implications of his declaration quietly, but decided to pick
her battles one at a time. “Fiona is right. We can’t possibly borrow the Ming family
plane two days in a row! In fact, I think it would look very inappropriate for us to fly in
a private plane at all. I mean, who do we think we are?”
“Daddy’s one of the most famous heart surgeons in the world! You are Singaporean
royalty! What’s wrong with flying on a private plane?” Eddie shouted in frustration, his
hands gesticulating so wildly that he almost hit the waiter behind him, who was about
to place a huge stack of bamboo steamers on the table.
“Uncle Eddie, look out! There’s food right behind you!” his nephew Jake shouted.
Eddie glanced around for a second and continued on his tirade. “Why are you always
like this, Mummy? Why do you always behave so provincial? You are filthy rich! Why
can’t you be a little less cheap for once and have more a sense of your own self-worth?”
His three children looked up momentarily from their math practice test books. They
were used to his rages at home but had rarely seen him so upset in front of Gong Gong
and Ah Ma. Fiona pulled at his sleeve, whispering, “Lower your voice! Please don’t talk
about money in front of the children.”
His mother shook her head calmly. “Eddie, this has nothing to do with self-worth. I
just feel this sort of extravagance is completely unnecessary. And I am not Singaporean
royalty. Singapore has no royalty. What a ridiculous thing to say.”
“This is so typical of you, Eddie. You just want all of Singapore to know that you flew
in on Ming Kah-Ching’s plane,” Cecilia interjected, reaching for one of the plump roast-
pork buns. “If it was your own plane, that would be one thing, but to have the audacity
to borrow a plane for three trips in two days is just unheard of. I personally would
rather pay for my own tickets.”
“Kitty flies private all the time,” Alistair said, though no one at the table paid him
any attention.
“Well, we should get our own jet. I’ve been saying it for years. Dad, you spend
practically half the month in the Beijing clinic, and since I plan to expand my presence
into China in a big way in the coming year—” Eddie began.
“Eddie, I have to agree with your mother and sister on this one. I just would not want
to be indebted to the Ming family in this way,” Malcolm finally said. As much as he
enjoyed flying private, he could not stomach the thought of borrowing the Ming jet.
“Why do I keep trying to do this ungrateful family so many favors?” Eddie huffed in
disgust. “Okay, you all do what you want. Squeeze into economy on China Airlines for
all I care. My family and I are taking Leo’s plane. And it’s a Bombardier Global Express.
It’s huge, state-of-the-art. There’s even a Matisse in the cabin. It’s going to be amazing.”
Fiona gave him a disapproving look, but he glared at her so forcefully that she
retreated from any further objection. Eddie shoveled down a few rolls of shrimp cheong
fun, got up, and announced imperiously, “I’m off. I have important clients to attend to!”
And with that, Eddie stormed out, leaving a rather relieved family in his wake.
Tony, mouth full of food, whispered to Cecilia, “Let’s see their entire family plunge
into the South China Sea on Leo Ming’s fancy-ass plane.”
As much as she tried to, Cecilia couldn’t stifle her laugh.
* Cantonese for “You’re out of your mind!”
7
Eleanor
SINGAPORE
After a few days of strategically placed phone calls, Eleanor finally nailed down the
source of the disturbing rumor involving her son. Daisy confessed hearing it from her
daughter-in-law’s best friend Rebecca Tang, who in turn revealed that she’d heard it
from her brother Moses Tang, who had been at Cambridge with Leonard Shang. And
Moses had this to report to Eleanor:
“I was in London for a conference. At the last minute, Leonard invites me down to
dinner at his country estate in Surrey. Have you been there, Mrs. Young? Aiyoh, what a
palace! I didn’t realize it was designed by Gabriel-Hippolyte Destailleur, the architect
who built Waddesdon Manor for the English Rothschilds. Anyway, we were dining with
all these ang mor * VIPS and MPs † visiting from Singapore and as usual Cassandra Shang
is holding court. And then out of nowhere Cassandra says loudly across the table to
your sister-in-law Victoria Young, ‘You’ll never guess what I heard … Nicky has been
dating a Taiwanese girl in New York, and now he’s bringing her to Singapore for the
Khoo wedding!’ And Victoria says, ‘Are you sure? Taiwanese? Good grief, did he fall for
some gold digger?’ And then Cassandra says something like, ‘Well, it might not be as
bad as you think. I have it on good authority that she’s one of the Chu girls. You know,
of the Taipei Plastics Chus. Not exactly old money, but at least they are one of the most
solid families in Taiwan.”
Had it been anyone else, Eleanor would have dismissed all this as nothing but idle
talk among her husband’s bored relatives. But this came from Cassandra, who was
usually dead accurate. She hadn’t earned the nickname “Radio One Asia” for nothing.
Eleanor wondered how Cassandra obtained this latest scoop. Nicky’s big-mouthed
second cousin was the last person he would ever confide in. Cassandra must have
gotten the intel from one of her spies in New York. She had spies everywhere, all
hoping to sah kah ‡ her by passing along some hot tip.
It did not come as a surprise to Eleanor that her son might have a new girlfriend.
What surprised her (or, more accurately, annoyed her) was the fact that it had taken
her until now to find out. Anyone could see that he was prime target number one, and
over the years there had been plenty of girls Nicky thought he had kept hidden from his
mother. All of them had been inconsequential in Eleanor’s eyes, since she knew her son
wasn’t ready to marry yet. But this time was different.
Eleanor had a long-held theory about men. She truly believed that for most men, all
that talk of “being in love” or “finding the right one” was absolute nonsense. Marriage
was purely a matter of timing, and whenever a man was finally done sowing his wild
oats and ready to settle down, whichever girl happened to be there at the time would
be the right one. She had seen the theory proven time and again; indeed she had caught
Philip Young at precisely the right moment. All the men in that clan tended to marry in
their early thirties, and Nicky was now ripe for the plucking. If someone in New York
already knew so much about Nicky’s relationship, and if he was actually bringing this
girl home to attend his best friend’s wedding, things must be getting serious. Serious
enough that he purposely hadn’t mentioned her existence. Serious enough to derail
Eleanor’s meticulously laid plans.
The setting sun refracted its rays through the floor-to-ceiling windows of the recently
completed penthouse apartment atop Cairnhill Road, bathing the atrium-like living
room in a deep orange glow. Eleanor gazed at the early-evening sky, taking in the
colonnade of buildings clustering around Scotts Road and the expansive views all the
way past the Singapore River to the Keppel Shipyard, the world’s busiest commercial
port. Even after thirty-four years of marriage, she did not take for granted all that it
meant for her to be sitting here with one of the most sought-after views on the island.
To Eleanor, every single person occupied a specific space in the elaborately
constructed social universe in her mind. Like most of the women in her crowd, Eleanor
could meet another Asian anywhere in the world—say, over dim sum at Royal China in
London, or shopping in the lingerie department of David Jones in Sydney—and within
thirty seconds of learning their name and where they lived, she would implement her
social algorithm and calculate precisely where they stood in her constellation based on
who their family was, who else they were related to, what their approximate net worth
might be, how the fortune was derived, and what family scandals might have occurred
within the past fifty years.
The Taipei Plastics Chus were very new money, made in the seventies and eighties,
most likely. Knowing next to nothing about this family made Eleanor particularly
anxious. How established were they in Taipei society? Who exactly were this girl’s
parents, and how much did she stand to inherit? She needed to know what she was up
against. It was 6:45 a.m. in New York. High time to wake Nicky up. She picked up the
telephone with one hand, and with the other she held at arm’s length the long-distance
discount calling card § that she always used, squinting at the row of tiny numbers. She
dialed a complicated series of codes and waited for several beeping signals before
finally entering the telephone number. The phone rang four times before Nick’s voice
mail picked up: “Hey, I can’t come to the phone right now, so leave a message and I’ll get
back to you as soon as I can.”
Eleanor was always a little taken aback whenever she heard her son’s “American”
accent. She much preferred the normal Queen’s English he would revert to whenever
he was back in Singapore. She spoke haltingly into the phone: “Nicky, where are you?
Call me tonight and let me know your flight information, lah. Everyone in the world
except me knows when you’re coming home. Also, are you staying with us first or with
Ah Ma? Please call me back. But don’t call tonight if it’s after midnight. I am going to
take an Ambien now, so I can’t be disturbed for at least eight hours.”
She put down the phone, and then almost immediately picked it up again; this time
dialing a cell-phone number. “Astrid, ah? Is that you?”
“Oh, hi, Auntie Elle,” Astrid said.
“Are you okay? You sound a bit funny.”
“No, I’m fine, I was just asleep,” Astrid said, clearing her throat.
“Oh. Why are you sleeping so early? Are you sick?”
“No, I’m in Paris, Auntie Elle.”
“Alamak, I forgot you were away! Sorry to wake you, lah. How is Paris?”
“Lovely.”
“Doing lots of shopping?”
“Not too much,” Astrid replied as patiently as possible. Did her auntie really call just
to discuss shopping?
“Do they still have those lines at Louis Vuitton that they make all the Asian customers
wait in?”
“I’m not sure. I haven’t been inside a Louis Vuitton in decades, Auntie Elle.”
“Good for you. Those lines are terrible, and then they only allow Asians to buy one
item. Reminds me of the Japanese occupation, when they forced all the Chinese to wait
in line for scraps of rotten food.”
“Yes, but I can sort of understand why they need these rules, Auntie Elle. You should
see the Asian tourists buying up all the luxury goods, not just at Louis Vuitton. They
are everywhere, buying everything in sight. If there’s a designer label, they want it. It’s
absolutely mad. And you know some of them are just bringing it back home to resell at
a profit.”
“Yah lah, it’s those fresh-off-the-boat tourists that give us a bad name. But I’ve been
shopping in Paris since the seventies—I would never wait in any line and be told what I
can buy! Anyway Astrid, I wanted to ask … have you spoken to Nicky recently?”
Astrid paused for a moment. “Um, he called me a couple of weeks ago.”
“Did he tell you when he was coming to Singapore?”
“No, he didn’t mention the exact date. But I’m sure he’ll be there a few days before
Colin’s wedding, don’t you think?”
“You know lah, Nicky doesn’t tell me anything!” Eleanor paused, and then continued
cautiously. “Hey, I’m thinking of throwing him and his girlfriend a surprise party. Just
a small party at the new flat, to welcome her to Singapore. Do you think that’s a good
idea?”
“Sure, Auntie Elle. I think they would love that.” Astrid was quite taken aback that
her aunt was being so welcoming to Rachel. Nick must have really worked his charm
overtime.
“But I don’t really know what she would like, so I don’t know how to plan this party
properly. Can you give me some ideas? Did you meet her when you were in New York
last year?”
“I did.”
Eleanor seethed quietly. Astrid was in New York last March, which meant this girl had
been in the picture for at least a year now.
“What’s she like? Is she very Taiwanese?” she asked.
“Taiwanese? Not at all. She seems completely Americanized to me,” Astrid offered,
before regretting what she’d said.
How horrible, Eleanor thought. She had always found Asian girls with American
accents to be quite ridiculous. They all sounded like they were faking it, trying to sound so
ang mor.
“So even though the family is from Taiwan, she was raised in America?”
“I didn’t even know she was from Taiwan, to tell you the truth.”
“Really? She didn’t talk about her family back in Taipei?”
“Not at all.” What was Auntie Elle getting at? Astrid knew that her aunt was prying, so
she felt like she had to present Rachel in the best possible light. “She’s very smart and
accomplished, Auntie Elle. I think you’ll like her.”
“Oh, so she’s the brainy type, like Nicky.”
“Yes, definitely. I’m told she’s one of the up-and-coming professors in her field.”
Eleanor was nonplussed. A professor! Nicky was dating a professor! Oh my, was this
woman older than him? “Nicky didn’t tell me what her specialty was.”
“Oh, economic development.”
A cunning, calculating older woman. Alamak. This was sounding worse and worse. “Did
she go to university in New York?” Eleanor pressed on.
“No, she went to Stanford, in California.”
“Yes, yes, I know Stanford,” Eleanor said, sounding unimpressed. It’s that school in
California for those people who can’t get into Harvard.
“It’s a top school, Auntie Elle,” Astrid said, knowing exactly what her aunt was
thinking.
“Well, I suppose if you are forced to go to an American university—”
“Come on, Auntie Elle. Stanford is a great university for anywhere. I believe she also
went to Northwestern for her master’s. Rachel is very intelligent and capable, and
completely down-to-earth. I think you’ll like her very much.”
“Oh, I’m sure I will,” Eleanor replied. So, her name was Rachel. Eleanor paused. She
just needed one more piece of information—the correct spelling of the girl’s surname.
But how was she going to get it without Astrid getting suspicious? Suddenly she had a
thought. “I think I’m going to get one of those nice cakes from Awfully Chocolate and
put her name on it. Do you know how she spells her surname? Is it C-H-U, C-H-O-O, or
C-H-I-U?”
“I think it’s just C-H-U.”
“Thank you. You’ve been so helpful,” Eleanor said. More than you’ll ever know.
“Of course, Auntie Elle. Let me know if there’s anything I can do to help out for your
party. I can’t wait to see your spectacular new flat.”
“Oh, you haven’t seen it yet? I thought your mother bought a unit here as well.”
“She may have, but I haven’t seen it. I can’t keep up with all of my parents’ property
juggling.”
“Of course, of course. Your parents have so many properties around the world, unlike
your poor uncle Philip and me. We just have the house in Sydney and this small little
pigeonhole.”
“Oh, I’m sure it’s anything but small, Auntie Elle. Isn’t it supposed to be the most
luxurious condo ever built in Singapore?” Astrid wondered for the millionth time why
all her relatives constantly tried to outdo each other in proclaiming their poverty.
“No, lah. It’s just a simple flat—nothing like your father’s house. Anyway, I’m sorry to
wake you. Do you need something to get back to sleep? I take fifty milligrams of
amitriptyline every night, and then an extra ten milligrams of Ambien if I really want
to sleep through the night. Sometimes I add a Lunesta, and if that doesn’t work, I get
out the Valium—”
“I’ll be fine, Auntie Elle.”
“Okay then, bye-bye!” With that, Eleanor hung up the phone. Her gamble had paid
off. Those two cousins were thick as thieves. Why didn’t she think of calling Astrid
sooner?
* In this instance, ang mor is used in reference to British politicians, most likely Tories.
† Abbreviation for “members of Parliament,” used in this instance to refer to Singapore MPs, most definitely from
the People’s Action Party.
‡ A Hokkien term that literally means “three legs” and comes from a rude hand gesture made by holding up three
fingers as if supporting someone’s genitals. This is the Chinese version of a practice more commonly known to
Westerners as “sucking up.”
§ Old-money Chinese absolutely loathe wasting money on long-distance telephone calls, almost as much as they hate
wasting money on fluffy towels, bottled water, hotel rooms, expensive Western food, taking taxis, tipping waiters,
and flying anything other than economy class.